Given the substantial concerns
about the fairness of
payment markets both
to consumers who
don't tend to transact
with rewards cards,
also to merchants
who tend to bear
high fees for processing
these transactions,
as well as general concerns
about the efficiency
of transacting with
these payment instruments given
how complicated the series of
transactions is required to
actually settle and clear
these transactions,
as well as general concerns
about, for example,
consumer fraud that we spent
less time talking about,
but of course are implicated in
situations when
consumers transact with
payment instruments and provide
their credit card information
to e-commerce platforms and
merchants more broadly
in ways that allow for
that information
to potentially be
stolen and fraudulently used.
So given this myriad problems
that exist in these markets,
there is of course
tremendous potential for
new financial technologies to
come in as real disruptors.
Incidentally,
the existence of credit
and debit cards as a means
of payment are in and of
itself earlier examples of
financial technology
innovations that moved
us away from less efficient
means of transacting,
for example, with cash and check.
So here we are, we're now
innovating further as we think
towards what the future holds
for financial transactions
more broadly.
This is a space that
large financial institutions
are actually spending
traditional financial
institutions are
spending significant
energy investing in.
As you'll see, here these are
massive investments by
the likes of Goldman Sachs,
Citi, JPMorgan, Bank of
America and many others.
Of course, the existence
of digital assets like
Bitcoin as a means of
transacting may well play into
the future of financial
technologies around payments,
as may well digital platforms
for things like
peer-to-peer lending which
allow credit needs that consumers
have to be met quickly
through transacting,
for example, through a
financial technology app
rather than by having
to go to a traditional
lender or a bank
to be able to take out
some of these loans.
I want to conclude with
just a few examples
on around payment innovation.
We talked a little bit about
stores like Starbucks,
who are creating payment apps
to avoid credit swipe fees.
Additionally,
technologies like Ripple,
which allow for consumers to
send money globally
using the power of
blockchain in a way
that is secure and has
fewer payments attached to it
than traditional
remittance technologies.
As well as low or
no cost applications that allow
for consumers to be able to
pay bills and make purchases,
transfer money to
other user and make
payments stores through
the use of their smartphones.
Of course, as all this
technology is developed,
it is becoming easier to
transact and cheaper to transact
through the use of
your digital platform
like your iPhone or your Android.
There's a concern that some of
these technologies may
disadvantage those who don't
have access to
smartphones to be able to
complete their transactions
in this manner.
Of course, this is not a reason
to discourage innovation,
but rather a reason
to think about
the distributional
effects of some
of these technological
advancements and how
it's possible to use
the leverage the power of
technology to make
financial technology more
broadly available to
consumers who don't
currently have access to some
of these great innovations.
Looking forward, there are
several questions that we
must think about as we think
through both the structure
of payments and
also how best to
intervene as regulators,
as policymakers, as academics is
interested consumers
in this space.
One is, should payments be
regulated in a way
that's distinct than
they're regulated today and
particularly should we
try and think about
some global framework for
financial regulation in
this particular manner?
The other is, what exactly does
the future of payments
look like and what are
the best ways that
technology can help make
these transactions happen
seamlessly and securely,
and advantage both consumers and
merchants in these markets?
Finally, how do we
think about engaging
with the kind of
security risks of
payment innovations when
you are transacting on
your phone for every purchase
you make in your day-to-day life.
Do you worry about what
happens and how do we
make sure that you're
secure information
is not going to be
easily stolen by
those around you?
Of course, like bio-metric
are two-factor
authentication devices
are being considered as
solutions to many
of these problems.